# Experimental: BLIS Cloud Command-Line Interface

The BLIS Cloud CLI is an experimental way to install and manage BLIS on cloud-based virtual machines.

!!! warning "This tool is in preview!"

    Unless you are comfortable debugging issues, you should instead use the [article on Running BLIS on a Cloud Provider.](11_blis_cloud.md)

## Installation

The tool is intended to be used on **Ubuntu** installations only. In order to install the tool, you must first install the prerequisites:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y python3-pip
echo "export PATH=\"\$HOME/.local/bin:\$PATH\"" | tee -a ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Then you can install the tool with:

```bash
pip3 install -U git+https://github.com/C4G/blis-cloud-cli.git
```

## Usage

### Installing Docker

You can check the status of Docker with:

```bash
blis docker status
```

The tool will check to see if Docker is installed and configured correctly.
If Docker is not installed, then you should run:

```bash
blis docker install
```

### Checking the status of BLIS

```bash
blis status
```

This command will check the status of BLIS: whether or not it is running, and if the system is supported.

### BLIS Installation

```bash
blis install
```

This command will install the BLIS configuration file to `~/.blis/` and provision the database as a Docker container.

### Starting BLIS

```bash
blis start
```

This command will start BLIS.


### BLIS Update

```bash
blis update
```

This command will update the container used by BLIS. If BLIS is running, it will stop and start BLIS as needed.

### Stopping BLIS

```bash
blis stop
```

This command will stop BLIS.

### Accessing log files

```bash
blis logs application
blis logs database
```

These two log files are generated by the BLIS application. The `application` log is most useful for debugging issues.

```bash
blis logs apache2/error
blis logs apache2/access
```

These two log files are generated by the Apache2 webserver. The `apache2/error` log contains PHP errors useful for debugging issues.
